Added issue templates tool (#86)
contributor-experience/handbook: docs/guide/tools/gh-issue-template.qmd

---
tite: "GitHub issue template"
sidebar: guide
---

## GitHub Issue templates

If you have your project in GitHub, you can create issue templates or forms. 

> These allow you ask relevant information to contributors wanting to open a new issue to your repository. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These allow you to ask for relevant information from contributors wanting to open a new issue to your repository. 
```

Minor grammar edits.

Author: Thanks

You can have a template for each type of issue. For example, it can be a bug report, 

> a request for a new feature, or a problem in the documentation. You could also ask for more 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a request for a new feature, or a suggestion to improve  project's documentation. You could also ask for more 
```
Let's make it more general as it could also be adding more content to the existing project documentation.

Author: Done, thanks.

information.

There are two ways to add templates into your project. You can set them up directly in the 
settings of your repository, or you can create them with `YAML` format files. 

If you create the templates writing yourself the `YAML` format files, you can create them 

> locally (in your machine) and push them to your repository when ready. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
locally (on your machine) and push them to your repository when ready. 
```

Author: Ouch..

The templates files should be under the directory `.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE` at the root of 
your project. There should be one `YAML` file for each template, if you decide to have different types. 
You also need a `config.yml` file if you want to customize the template selection.

For a step by step guide, please visit the 
[GitHub documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/communities/using-templates-to-encourage-useful-issues-and-pull-requests/configuring-issue-templates-for-your-repository).

> ## Examples of how templates are done

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Examples of GitHub issue templates
```

Author: Much nicer.
